src/internet-apps/doc/internet-apps.rst, before:

Internet Applications Module Documentation
------------------------------------------

.. include:: replace.txt
.. highlight:: cpp

.. heading hierarchy:
   ------------- Chapter
   ************* Section (#.#)
   ============= Subsection (#.#.#)
   ############# Paragraph (no number)

This is a suggested outline for adding new module documentation to |ns3|.
See ``src/click/doc/click.rst`` for an example.

The introductory paragraph is for describing what this code is trying to
model.

For consistency (italicized formatting), please use |ns3| to refer to
ns-3 in the documentation (and likewise, |ns2| for ns-2).  These macros
are defined in the file ``replace.txt``.

Model Description
*****************

The source code for the new module lives in the directory ``src/internet-apps``.

The goal of this module is to hold all the Internet-specific applications,
and most notably some very specific applications (e.g., ping) or daemons (e.g., radvd).

Each application has its own goals, limitations and scope, which are briefly explained
in the following.

V4Ping
======

This app mimics a "ping" (ICMP Echo) using IPv4. The application allows the 
following attributes to be set:

* Remote address
* Verbose mode
* Packet size (default 56 bytes)
* Packet interval  (default 1 second)

Moreover, the user can access the measured rtt value (as a Traced Source).

Ping6
=====

This app mimics a "ping" (ICMP Echo) using IPv6. The application allows the 
following attributes to be set:

* Remote address
* Local address (sender address)
* Packet size (default 56 bytes)
* Packet interval  (default 1 second)
* Max number of packets to send

Radvd
=====

This app mimics a "RADVD" daemon. I.e., the daemon responsible for IPv6 routers 
advertisements. All the IPv6 routers should have a RADVD daemon installed.

The configuration of the Radvd application mimics the one of the radvd Linux program.

Examples and use
****************

All the applications are extensively used in the ``examples'' directory. The users
are encouraged to check the scripts therein to have a clear overview of the various
options and usage tricks.

Commit message:

include Internet Applications in documentation build

src/internet-apps/doc/internet-apps.rst, after:

Internet Applications Module Documentation
------------------------------------------

.. include:: replace.txt
.. highlight:: cpp

.. heading hierarchy:
   ------------- Chapter
   ************* Section (#.#)
   ============= Subsection (#.#.#)
   ############# Paragraph (no number)

The goal of this module is to hold all the Internet-specific applications,
and most notably some very specific applications (e.g., ping) or daemons (e.g., radvd).  Other non-Internet-specific applications such as packet generators
are contained in other modules.

Model Description
*****************

The source code for the new module lives in the directory ``src/internet-apps``.

Each application has its own goals, limitations and scope, which are briefly explained
in the following.

V4Ping
======

This app mimics a "ping" (ICMP Echo) using IPv4. The application allows the 
following attributes to be set:

* Remote address
* Verbose mode
* Packet size (default 56 bytes)
* Packet interval  (default 1 second)

Moreover, the user can access the measured rtt value (as a Traced Source).

Ping6
=====

This app mimics a "ping" (ICMP Echo) using IPv6. The application allows the 
following attributes to be set:

* Remote address
* Local address (sender address)
* Packet size (default 56 bytes)
* Packet interval  (default 1 second)
* Max number of packets to send

Radvd
=====

This app mimics a "RADVD" daemon. I.e., the daemon responsible for IPv6 routers 
advertisements. All the IPv6 routers should have a RADVD daemon installed.

The configuration of the Radvd application mimics the one of the radvd Linux program.

Examples and use
****************

All the applications are extensively used in the top-level ``examples'' 
directories. The users are encouraged to check the scripts therein to have a 
clear overview of the various options and usage tricks.
