src/spectrum/doc/spectrum.rst, before:


.. _sec-spectrum-module:

Spectrum Module
---------------

.. include:: replace.txt
.. highlight:: cpp

.. heading hierarchy:
   ------------- Chapter
   ************* Section (#.#)
   ============= Subsection (#.#.#)
   ############# Paragraph (no number)





The Spectrum module aims at providing support for modeling the frequency-dependent 
aspects of communications in |ns3|. 
The model was first introduced in
[Baldo2009]_, and has been enhanced and refined over the years. 



.. _fig-spectrum-analyzer-example:
 
.. figure:: figures/spectrum-analyzer-example.*
   :align: center

   Spectrogram produced by a spectrum analyzer in a scenario
   involving wifi signals interfered by a microwave oven, as simulated
   by the example ``adhoc-aloha-ideal-phy-with-microwave-oven``.


Model Description
*****************

The module provides:

* a set of classes for modeling signals and 

* a Channel/PHY interface based on a power spectral density
  signal representation that is technology-independent

* two technology-independent Channel implementations based on the Channel/PHY interface

* a set of basic PHY model implementations based on the Channel/PHY interface

The source code for the spectrum module is located at ``src/spectrum``.


Design
======


Signal model
############

The signal model is implemented by the
``SpectrumSignalParameters`` class. This class provides the following
information for a signal being transmitted/received by PHY devices:

* a reference to the transmitting PHY device

* a reference to the antenna model used by the transmitting PHY device
  to transmit this signal

* the duration of the signal

* its Power Spectral Density (PSD) of the signal, which is assumed to be constant for
  the duration of the signal. 

The ``SpectrumSignalParameters``

The PSD is represented as a set of discrete scalar values each
corresponding to a certain subband in frequency. The set of frequency subbands
to which the PSD refers to is defined by an instance of the
``SpectrumModel`` class. The PSD itself is implemented as an instance
of the ``SpectrumValue`` class which contains a reference to the
associated ``SpectrumModel`` class instance. The ``SpectrumValue``
class provides several arithmetic operators to allow to perform calculations
with PSD instances. Additionally, the ``SpectrumConverter`` class
provides means for the conversion of ``SpectrumValue`` instances from
one ``SpectrumModel`` to another.

For a more formal mathematical description of the signal model just
described, the reader is referred to [Baldo2009]_.



Channel/PHY interface
#####################

The spectrum Channel/PHY interface is defined by the base classes ``SpectrumChannel``
and ``SpectrumPhy``. Their interaction simulates the transmission and
reception of signals over the medium. The way this interaction works is depicted in :ref:`fig-spectrum-channel-phy-interface`:


.. _fig-spectrum-channel-phy-interface:
 
.. figure:: figures/spectrum-channel-phy-interface.*
   :align: center

   Sequence diagram showing the interaction between SpectrumPhy and SpectrumChannel



Spectrum Channel implementations
################################

The module provides two ``SpectrumChannel`` implementations:
``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel``. They
both provide this functionality:

 * Propagation loss modeling, in two forms:

   - you can plug models based on ``PropagationLossModel`` on these
     channels. Only linear models (where the loss value does not
     depend on the transmission power) can be used. 
     These models are single-frequency in the sense that the loss value is
     applied equally to all components of the power spectral density.

   - you can plug models based on ``SpectrumPropagationLossModel`` on these
     channels. These models can have frequency-dependent loss, i.e.,
     a separate loss value is calculated and applied to each component
     of the power spectral density.

 * Propagation delay modeling, by plugging a model based on
   ``PropagationDelayModel``. The delay is independent of frequency and
   applied to the signal as a whole. Delay modeling is implemented by
   scheduling the ``StartRx`` event with a delay respect to the
   ``StartTx`` event.

``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` are
quite similar, the main difference is that
``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` allows to use different 
``SpectrumModel`` instances with the same channel instance, by
automatically taking care of the conversion of PSDs among the
different models.



.. _sec-example-model-implementations:

Example model implementations
#############################


The spectrum module provides some basic implementation of several components that
are mainly intended as a proof-of-concept and as an example for
building custom models with the spectrum module. Here is a brief list
of the available implementations:

 * ``SpectrumModel300Khz300GhzLog`` and
   ``SpectrumModelIsm2400MhzRes1Mhz`` are two example ``SpectrumModel`` implementations

 * ``HalfDuplexIdealPhy``: a basic PHY model using a gaussian
   interference model (implemented in ``SpectrumInterference``)
   together with an error model based on Shannon capacity (described
   in [Baldo2009]_ and implemented in ``SpectrumErrorModel``. This PHY
   uses the ``GenericPhy`` interface. Its addditional custom signal
   parameters are defined in ``HalfDuplexIdealPhySignalParameters``.

 * ``WifiSpectrumValueHelper`` is an helper object that makes it easy
   to create ``SpectrumValues`` representing PSDs and RF filters for
   the wifi technology.

 * ``AlohaNoackNetDevice``: a minimal NetDevice that allows to send
   packets over ``HalfDuplexIdealPhy`` (or other PHY model based on
   the  ``GenericPhy`` interface). 

 * ``SpectrumAnalyzer``, ``WaveformGenerator`` and ``MicrowaveOven`` are examples of PHY
   models other than communication devices - the names should be
   self-explaining. 





  


References
==========

.. [Baldo2009] N. Baldo and M. Miozzo, "Spectrum-aware Channel and PHY layer modeling for ns3", 
   Proceedings of ICST NSTools 2009, Pisa, Italy




Usage
*****

The main use case of the spectrum model is for developers who want to
develop a new model for the PHY layer of some wireless technology to
be used within ns-3. 
Here are some notes on how the spectrum module is expected to be used.

 * ``SpectrumPhy`` and ``SpectrumChannel`` are abstract base classes. Real
   code will use classes that inherit from these classes. 

 * If you are implementing a new model for some wireless
   technology of your interest, and want to use the spectrum module,
   you'll typically create your own module and make it depend on the
   spectrum module. Then you typically have to implement:

    - a child class of ``SpectrumModel`` which defines the (sets of) frequency
      subbands used by the considered wireless technology. **Note**:
      instances of ``SpectrumModel`` are typically statically allocated,
      in order to allow several ``SpectrumValue`` instances to reference
      the same ``SpectrumModel`` instance.
   
    - a child class of ``SpectrumPhy`` which will handle transmission and
      reception of signals (including, if appropriate, interference
      and error modeling). 

 * The available ``SpectrumChannel`` implementations
   (``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel``,
   are quite generic. Chances are you can use them as-is. Whether you
   prefer one or the other it is just a matter of whether you will
   have a single SpectrumModel or multiple ones in your
   simulations. 

 * Typically, there will be a single SpectrumChannel instance to which
   several SpectrumPhy instances are plugged. The rule of thumb is
   that all PHYs that are interfering with each other shall be plugged
   on the same channel. Multiple SpectrumChannel instances are
   expected to be used mainly when simulating completely orthogonal
   channels; for example, when simulating the uplink and downlink 
   of a Frequency Division Duplex system, it is a good choice to use
   two SpectrumChannel instances in order to reduce computational
   complexity. 

 * Different types of SpectrumPhy (i.e., instances of different child
   classes) can be plugged on the same SpectrumChannel instance. This
   is one of the main features of the 
   spectrum module, to support inter-technology interference. For
   example, if you implement a WifiSpectrumPhy and a
   BluetoohSpectrumPhy, and plug both on a SpectrumChannel, then you'll
   be able to simulate interference between wifi and bluetooth and
   vice versa.




Helpers
=======


The helpers provided in ``src/spectrum/helpers`` are mainly intended
for the example implementations described in :ref:`Example model
implementations`. 
If you are developing your custom model based on the
spectrum framework, you will probably prefer to define your own
helpers.



Attributes
==========


 * Both ``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and
   ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` have an attribute ``MaxLossDb`` which
   can use to avoid propagating signals affected by very high
   propagation loss. You can use this to reduce the complexity of
   interference calculations. Just be careful to choose a value that
   does not make the interference calculations inaccurate.

 * The example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` also have several attributes. 





Output
======


 * Both ``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and
   ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` provide a trace source called
   ``PathLoss`` which is fired whenever a new path loss value is
   calclulated. **Note**: only single-frequency path loss is accounted
   for, see the attribute description.

 * The example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` also provide some trace sources. 

 * The helper class ``SpectrumAnalyzerHelper`` can be conveniently
   used to generate an output text file containing the spectrogram
   produced by a SpectrumAnalyzer instance. The format is designed to
   be easily plotted with ``gnuplot``. For example, if your run the
   example ``adhoc-aloha-ideal-phy-with-microwave-oven`` you will get
   an output file called ``spectrum-analyzer-output-3-0.tr``. From
   this output file, you can generate a figure similar to 
   :ref:`fig-spectrum-channel-phy-interface` by executing the following
   gnuplot commands::

    unset surface
    set pm3d at s 
    set palette
    set key off
    set view 50,50
    set xlabel "time (ms)"
    set ylabel "freq (MHz)"
    set zlabel "PSD (dBW/Hz)" offset 15,0,0
    splot "./spectrum-analyzer-output-3-0.tr" using ($1*1000.0):($2/1e6):(10*log10($3))



Examples
========


The example programs in ``src/spectrum/examples/`` allow to see the
example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` in action.


Troubleshooting
===============

 * **Disclaimer on inter-technology interference**: the spectrum model
   makes it very easy to implement an inter-technology interference
   model, but this does not guarantee
   that the resulting model is accurate. For example, the gaussian
   interference model implemented in the ``SpectrumInterference`` class can be used
   to calculate inter-technology interference, however the results might not be valid in some
   scenarios, depending on the actual waveforms involved, the number
   of interferers, etc. Moreover, it is very important to use error
   models that are consistent with the interference model. The
   responsibility of ensuring that the models being used are correct 
   is left to the user.





Testing
*******

In this section we describe the test suites that are provided within
the spectrum module.

SpectrumValue test
==================

The test suite ``spectrum-value`` verifies the correct functionality of the arithmetic
operators implemented by the ``SpectrumValue`` class. Each test case
corresponds to a different operator. The test passes if the result
provided by the operator implementation is equal to the reference
values which were calculated offline by hand. Equality is verified
within a tolerance of :math:`10^{-6}` which is to account for
numerical errors.


SpectrumConverter test
======================

The test suite ``spectrum-converter`` verifies the correct
functionality of the ``SpectrumConverter`` class. Different test cases
correspond to the conversion of different ``SpectrumValue`` instances
to different ``SpectrumModel`` instances. Each test passes if the
``SpectrumValue`` instance resulting from the conversion is equal to the reference
values which were calculated offline by hand. Equality is verified
within a tolerance of :math:`10^{-6}` which is to account for
numerical errors.


Describe how the model has been tested/validated.  What tests run in the
test suite?  How much API and code is covered by the tests?  Again, 
references to outside published work may help here.




Interference test
=================

The test suite ``spectrum-interference`` verifies the correct
functionality of the ``SpectrumInterference`` and
``ShannonSpectrumErrorModel`` in a scenario involving four
signals (an intended signal plus three interferers). Different test
cases are created corresponding to different PSDs of the intended
signal and different amount of transmitted bytes. The test passes if
the output of the error model (successful or failed) coincides with
the expected one which was determine offline by manually calculating
the achievable rate using Shannon's formula. 


IdealPhy test
=============

The test verifies that ``AlohaNoackNetDevice`` and
``HalfDuplexIdealPhy`` work properly when installed in a node. The
test recreates a scenario with two nodes (a TX and a RX) affected by a path loss such
that a certain SNR is obtained. The TX node transmits with a
pre-determined PHY rate and with an application layer rate which is
larger than the PHY rate, so as to saturate the
channel. ``PacketSocket`` is used in order to avoid protocol
overhead. Different
test cases correspond to different PHY rate and SNR values. For each
test case, we calculated offline (using Shannon's formula) whether
the PHY rate is achievable or not. Each test case passes if the
following conditions are satisfied:

 * if the PHY rate is achievable, the application throughput shall be within
   :math:`1\%` of the PHY rate;

 * if the PHY rate is not achievable, the application throughput shall
   be zero.

Commit message:

clarified SpectrumSignalParameters usage in model docs

src/spectrum/doc/spectrum.rst, after:


.. _sec-spectrum-module:

Spectrum Module
---------------

.. include:: replace.txt
.. highlight:: cpp

.. heading hierarchy:
   ------------- Chapter
   ************* Section (#.#)
   ============= Subsection (#.#.#)
   ############# Paragraph (no number)





The Spectrum module aims at providing support for modeling the frequency-dependent 
aspects of communications in |ns3|. 
The model was first introduced in
[Baldo2009]_, and has been enhanced and refined over the years. 



.. _fig-spectrum-analyzer-example:
 
.. figure:: figures/spectrum-analyzer-example.*
   :align: center

   Spectrogram produced by a spectrum analyzer in a scenario
   involving wifi signals interfered by a microwave oven, as simulated
   by the example ``adhoc-aloha-ideal-phy-with-microwave-oven``.


Model Description
*****************

The module provides:

* a set of classes for modeling signals and 

* a Channel/PHY interface based on a power spectral density
  signal representation that is technology-independent

* two technology-independent Channel implementations based on the Channel/PHY interface

* a set of basic PHY model implementations based on the Channel/PHY interface

The source code for the spectrum module is located at ``src/spectrum``.


Design
======


Signal model
############

The signal model is implemented by the
``SpectrumSignalParameters`` class. This class provides the following
information for a signal being transmitted/received by PHY devices:

* a reference to the transmitting PHY device

* a reference to the antenna model used by the transmitting PHY device
  to transmit this signal

* the duration of the signal

* its Power Spectral Density (PSD) of the signal, which is assumed to be constant for
  the duration of the signal. 

The PSD is represented as a set of discrete scalar values each
corresponding to a certain subband in frequency. The set of frequency subbands
to which the PSD refers to is defined by an instance of the
``SpectrumModel`` class. The PSD itself is implemented as an instance
of the ``SpectrumValue`` class which contains a reference to the
associated ``SpectrumModel`` class instance. The ``SpectrumValue``
class provides several arithmetic operators to allow to perform calculations
with PSD instances. Additionally, the ``SpectrumConverter`` class
provides means for the conversion of ``SpectrumValue`` instances from
one ``SpectrumModel`` to another.

For a more formal mathematical description of the signal model just
described, the reader is referred to [Baldo2009]_.

The ``SpectrumSignalParameters`` class is meant to include only
information that is valid for all signals; as such, it is not meant to
be modified to add technology-specific information (such as type of
modulation and coding schemes used, info on preambles and reference
signals, etc). Instead, such information shall be put in a new class
that inherits from ``SpectrumSignalParameters`` and extends it with
any technology-specific information that is needed. This design
is intended to model the fact that in the real world we have signals
of different technologies being simultaneously transmitted and
received over the air.  



Channel/PHY interface
#####################

The spectrum Channel/PHY interface is defined by the base classes ``SpectrumChannel``
and ``SpectrumPhy``. Their interaction simulates the transmission and
reception of signals over the medium. The way this interaction works is depicted in :ref:`fig-spectrum-channel-phy-interface`:


.. _fig-spectrum-channel-phy-interface:
 
.. figure:: figures/spectrum-channel-phy-interface.*
   :align: center

   Sequence diagram showing the interaction between SpectrumPhy and SpectrumChannel



Spectrum Channel implementations
################################

The module provides two ``SpectrumChannel`` implementations:
``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel``. They
both provide this functionality:

 * Propagation loss modeling, in two forms:

   - you can plug models based on ``PropagationLossModel`` on these
     channels. Only linear models (where the loss value does not
     depend on the transmission power) can be used. 
     These models are single-frequency in the sense that the loss value is
     applied equally to all components of the power spectral density.

   - you can plug models based on ``SpectrumPropagationLossModel`` on these
     channels. These models can have frequency-dependent loss, i.e.,
     a separate loss value is calculated and applied to each component
     of the power spectral density.

 * Propagation delay modeling, by plugging a model based on
   ``PropagationDelayModel``. The delay is independent of frequency and
   applied to the signal as a whole. Delay modeling is implemented by
   scheduling the ``StartRx`` event with a delay respect to the
   ``StartTx`` event.

``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` are
quite similar, the main difference is that
``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` allows to use different 
``SpectrumModel`` instances with the same channel instance, by
automatically taking care of the conversion of PSDs among the
different models.



.. _sec-example-model-implementations:

Example model implementations
#############################


The spectrum module provides some basic implementation of several components that
are mainly intended as a proof-of-concept and as an example for
building custom models with the spectrum module. Here is a brief list
of the available implementations:

 * ``SpectrumModel300Khz300GhzLog`` and
   ``SpectrumModelIsm2400MhzRes1Mhz`` are two example ``SpectrumModel`` implementations

 * ``HalfDuplexIdealPhy``: a basic PHY model using a gaussian
   interference model (implemented in ``SpectrumInterference``)
   together with an error model based on Shannon capacity (described
   in [Baldo2009]_ and implemented in ``SpectrumErrorModel``. This PHY
   uses the ``GenericPhy`` interface. Its addditional custom signal
   parameters are defined in ``HalfDuplexIdealPhySignalParameters``.

 * ``WifiSpectrumValueHelper`` is an helper object that makes it easy
   to create ``SpectrumValues`` representing PSDs and RF filters for
   the wifi technology.

 * ``AlohaNoackNetDevice``: a minimal NetDevice that allows to send
   packets over ``HalfDuplexIdealPhy`` (or other PHY model based on
   the  ``GenericPhy`` interface). 

 * ``SpectrumAnalyzer``, ``WaveformGenerator`` and ``MicrowaveOven`` are examples of PHY
   models other than communication devices - the names should be
   self-explaining. 





  


References
==========

.. [Baldo2009] N. Baldo and M. Miozzo, "Spectrum-aware Channel and PHY layer modeling for ns3", 
   Proceedings of ICST NSTools 2009, Pisa, Italy




Usage
*****

The main use case of the spectrum model is for developers who want to
develop a new model for the PHY layer of some wireless technology to
be used within ns-3. 
Here are some notes on how the spectrum module is expected to be used.

 * ``SpectrumPhy`` and ``SpectrumChannel`` are abstract base classes. Real
   code will use classes that inherit from these classes. 

 * If you are implementing a new model for some wireless
   technology of your interest, and want to use the spectrum module,
   you'll typically create your own module and make it depend on the
   spectrum module. Then you typically have to implement:

    - a child class of ``SpectrumModel`` which defines the (sets of) frequency
      subbands used by the considered wireless technology. **Note**:
      instances of ``SpectrumModel`` are typically statically allocated,
      in order to allow several ``SpectrumValue`` instances to reference
      the same ``SpectrumModel`` instance.
   
    - a child class of ``SpectrumPhy`` which will handle transmission and
      reception of signals (including, if appropriate, interference
      and error modeling).

    - a child class of ``SpectrumSignalParameters`` which will contain
      all the information needed to model the signals for the wireless
      technology being considered that is not already provided by the
      base ``SpectrumSignalParameters`` class. Examples of such
      information are the type of modulation and coding schemes used,
      the PHY preamble format, info on the pilot/reference signals, etc.

 * The available ``SpectrumChannel`` implementations
   (``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel``,
   are quite generic. Chances are you can use them as-is. Whether you
   prefer one or the other it is just a matter of whether you will
   have a single SpectrumModel or multiple ones in your
   simulations. 

 * Typically, there will be a single SpectrumChannel instance to which
   several SpectrumPhy instances are plugged. The rule of thumb is
   that all PHYs that are interfering with each other shall be plugged
   on the same channel. Multiple SpectrumChannel instances are
   expected to be used mainly when simulating completely orthogonal
   channels; for example, when simulating the uplink and downlink 
   of a Frequency Division Duplex system, it is a good choice to use
   two SpectrumChannel instances in order to reduce computational
   complexity. 

 * Different types of SpectrumPhy (i.e., instances of different child
   classes) can be plugged on the same SpectrumChannel instance. This
   is one of the main features of the 
   spectrum module, to support inter-technology interference. For
   example, if you implement a WifiSpectrumPhy and a
   BluetoohSpectrumPhy, and plug both on a SpectrumChannel, then you'll
   be able to simulate interference between wifi and bluetooth and
   vice versa.

 * Different child classes of ``SpectrumSignalParameters`` can coexist
   in the same simulation, and be transmitted over the same channel
   object.  Again, this is part of the support for inter-technology
   interference. A PHY device model is expected to use the
   ``DynamicCast<>`` operator to determine if a signal is of a certain
   type it can attempt to receive. If not, the signal is normally
   expected to be considered as interference. 




Helpers
=======


The helpers provided in ``src/spectrum/helpers`` are mainly intended
for the example implementations described in :ref:`Example model
implementations`. 
If you are developing your custom model based on the
spectrum framework, you will probably prefer to define your own
helpers.



Attributes
==========


 * Both ``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and
   ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` have an attribute ``MaxLossDb`` which
   can use to avoid propagating signals affected by very high
   propagation loss. You can use this to reduce the complexity of
   interference calculations. Just be careful to choose a value that
   does not make the interference calculations inaccurate.

 * The example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` also have several attributes. 





Output
======


 * Both ``SingleModelSpectrumChannel`` and
   ``MultiModelSpectrumChannel`` provide a trace source called
   ``PathLoss`` which is fired whenever a new path loss value is
   calclulated. **Note**: only single-frequency path loss is accounted
   for, see the attribute description.

 * The example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` also provide some trace sources. 

 * The helper class ``SpectrumAnalyzerHelper`` can be conveniently
   used to generate an output text file containing the spectrogram
   produced by a SpectrumAnalyzer instance. The format is designed to
   be easily plotted with ``gnuplot``. For example, if your run the
   example ``adhoc-aloha-ideal-phy-with-microwave-oven`` you will get
   an output file called ``spectrum-analyzer-output-3-0.tr``. From
   this output file, you can generate a figure similar to 
   :ref:`fig-spectrum-analyzer-example` by executing the following
   gnuplot commands::

    unset surface
    set pm3d at s 
    set palette
    set key off
    set view 50,50
    set xlabel "time (ms)"
    set ylabel "freq (MHz)"
    set zlabel "PSD (dBW/Hz)" offset 15,0,0
    splot "./spectrum-analyzer-output-3-0.tr" using ($1*1000.0):($2/1e6):(10*log10($3))



Examples
========


The example programs in ``src/spectrum/examples/`` allow to see the
example implementations described in :ref:`sec-example-model-implementations` in action.


Troubleshooting
===============

 * **Disclaimer on inter-technology interference**: the spectrum model
   makes it very easy to implement an inter-technology interference
   model, but this does not guarantee
   that the resulting model is accurate. For example, the gaussian
   interference model implemented in the ``SpectrumInterference`` class can be used
   to calculate inter-technology interference, however the results might not be valid in some
   scenarios, depending on the actual waveforms involved, the number
   of interferers, etc. Moreover, it is very important to use error
   models that are consistent with the interference model. The
   responsibility of ensuring that the models being used are correct 
   is left to the user.





Testing
*******

In this section we describe the test suites that are provided within
the spectrum module.

SpectrumValue test
==================

The test suite ``spectrum-value`` verifies the correct functionality of the arithmetic
operators implemented by the ``SpectrumValue`` class. Each test case
corresponds to a different operator. The test passes if the result
provided by the operator implementation is equal to the reference
values which were calculated offline by hand. Equality is verified
within a tolerance of :math:`10^{-6}` which is to account for
numerical errors.


SpectrumConverter test
======================

The test suite ``spectrum-converter`` verifies the correct
functionality of the ``SpectrumConverter`` class. Different test cases
correspond to the conversion of different ``SpectrumValue`` instances
to different ``SpectrumModel`` instances. Each test passes if the
``SpectrumValue`` instance resulting from the conversion is equal to the reference
values which were calculated offline by hand. Equality is verified
within a tolerance of :math:`10^{-6}` which is to account for
numerical errors.


Describe how the model has been tested/validated.  What tests run in the
test suite?  How much API and code is covered by the tests?  Again, 
references to outside published work may help here.




Interference test
=================

The test suite ``spectrum-interference`` verifies the correct
functionality of the ``SpectrumInterference`` and
``ShannonSpectrumErrorModel`` in a scenario involving four
signals (an intended signal plus three interferers). Different test
cases are created corresponding to different PSDs of the intended
signal and different amount of transmitted bytes. The test passes if
the output of the error model (successful or failed) coincides with
the expected one which was determine offline by manually calculating
the achievable rate using Shannon's formula. 


IdealPhy test
=============

The test verifies that ``AlohaNoackNetDevice`` and
``HalfDuplexIdealPhy`` work properly when installed in a node. The
test recreates a scenario with two nodes (a TX and a RX) affected by a path loss such
that a certain SNR is obtained. The TX node transmits with a
pre-determined PHY rate and with an application layer rate which is
larger than the PHY rate, so as to saturate the
channel. ``PacketSocket`` is used in order to avoid protocol
overhead. Different
test cases correspond to different PHY rate and SNR values. For each
test case, we calculated offline (using Shannon's formula) whether
the PHY rate is achievable or not. Each test case passes if the
following conditions are satisfied:

 * if the PHY rate is achievable, the application throughput shall be within
   :math:`1\%` of the PHY rate;

 * if the PHY rate is not achievable, the application throughput shall
   be zero.
